Before we dive in and start using TensorFlow and carers to build neural networks,
let's first try to build a neural network
ourselves that can be used with the MNIST data set.
To do this, we have to face two issues,
the first issue concerns the input to our network.
The networks we've built so far are called fully connected or dense networks.
That means that each unit or neuron in
one layer is connected to each unit in the next layer.
The fully connected networks,
the input to each layer must be a one dimensional tensor.
This poses a problem for us because our images are
two-dimensional tensors of size 28 by 28.
Therefore, we must convert our two-dimensional images
to one-dimensional tensors before they can be fed into our network.
Specifically, we need to convert our batch of images that have shaped 64 by 28 by
28 by one to a tensor of shape 64 by 784.
We get 784 by multiplying 28 by 28.
This process is typically called flattening
because we're flattening a 2D image into a 1D vector.
So now this batch contains 64 images that have been flattened.
Each image in this batch has been flattened to a vector that has 784 values.
The second issue we have to face has to do with the output of our network.
In the previous notebook,
you build a neural network that had a single output unit.
But now in this case,
we need 10 output units because our data set
contains 10 labels corresponding to the digits from 0-9.
In this exercise, I will leave it up to you to create
a neural network that flattens the batches of images and returns 10 outputs.
For now, do not apply an activation function to the output layer.
Since we'll do that in the next section,
this is a good time to pause the video and try out
this exercise for yourself before I show you my solution.
Here is my solution to this exercise.
I start by defining the activation function we're
going to use for the units in the hidden layer.
Here, I've chosen to use a sigmoid activation function,
just like we did in the previous notebook.
Next, I proceed to flatten our input images.
To do this, I use the tf.reshape function.
Given a tensor or a numpy and the array,
this operation returns a tensor that has
the same values as the given tensor or numpy array,
but with the given shape.
In our case, images is a numpy array with size of 64 by 28 by 28.
Remember that we got images by taking
our image batch and converting it to a numpy array and then squeezing it.
So we need to convert images,
which is a numpy array of shape 64 by 28 by 28 into a tensor that has shape 64 by 784.
If you noticed, we need to make sure that the batch size remains the same,
which in this case is 64.
Therefore, we need to ensure that the first dimension of
our new tensor is equal to the first number of the shape tuple of our images array.
Now for the second dimension of our new tensor,
we're going to use this special value minus one.
The minus one value tells the tf.reshape
function that we want to flatten the other dimensions of our images array.
Here we print the shape of the tensor returned by the tf reshape
function to check that he has the correct shape of 64 by 784.
Once I flatten my images,
I proceed in exactly the same way as we did in the previous notebook.
So here I create the random weights and biases for my network,
here I calculate the values of the units in the hidden layer,
and here I calculate the values of the units in
the output layer without the activation function.
Finally, I print out the shape of
the input and output tensors to make sure they have the right shape.
The neural network we just created in the previous exercise outputs 10 values.
Ultimately, what we want is to pass an image to
our neural network such as this one and get out
a probability distribution over the classes that tells
us the most likely class or classes the image belongs to.
Here we see that the probability for each class is roughly the same.
An output like this is typical of a neural network that has not been trained,
so the neural network is just guessing.
Therefore, it's just giving an equal probability to each of the digits in the image.
To get a probability distribution such as
this one from the output values of our neural network,
we usually use a softmax function,
which mathematically looks like this.
In this exercise, I'm going to leave it up to you to create a function called
softmax that performs the softmax calculation according to this equation.
Now is a good time to pause the video and try out
this exercise yourself before I show you my solution.
Here is my solution to this exercise.
Notice that I used tf reduce sum with the keyword arguments x
is equals one and keepdims equals true so that the output tensor has the correct shape.
Then I apply this softmax activation function
through the output values that we got from our previous neural network.
Finally, I print out the sum of probabilities for each of the 64 images.
The sum of probabilities will be equal to one for all images.
So let's check that, as we can see
that sum of probabilities for all images sums up to one as it should be.